---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: true
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-08T12:59:50.199Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-08T12:59:30.856Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-08-c754669f-1e45-41d3-819f-adf20dbde28a.md
published: true
url: c754669f-1e45-41d3-819f-adf20dbde28a/index.html
_type: Article

---
Hard, Not Complicated is the name of my upcoming book. This blog post talks about what the book talks about only shorter. 

Life can be hard. And life can be complicated. Sometimes we mix these two things up. Why? Because we're too clever for our own good. 

Humans are successful creatures by pretty much any measure. We dominate this planet like no other animal has or probably ever will. We do this because of the big lump of squishy stuff between our ears and a tendency to use it to look for ways to avoid hard work. 

We have, over the years, successfully designed relatively complicated solutions that have reduced the amount of backbreaking toil or mental effort required to do this and that. From viaducts to pocket calculators we have used our brains to convert hard stuff into easy but complicated stuff. So far, so mostly good.

Unfortunately we aren't always great at knowing when our standard operating procedure isn't entirely the right way to go. Sometimes we persist in trying to find complicated solutions to hard problems when what we really need to do is face the laborious music and get to rhythmic work. 

In this category I would place things like getting fit and losing weight, learning a second language or a musical instrument, quitting smoking, getting a good night's sleep or building a better relationship with a friend or family member. These are all things for which there are no clever, low effort solutions. They all require effort and staying power. Sadly we have yet to invent a gadget able to do that for us.  

So we come to my area of interest and the newest member of the Hard, Not Complicated set of human endeavours: creativity. 

Creativity is so much like physical fitness that it staggers me I didn't notice it sooner. We all have natural fitness as children and we all exhibit natural creative ability. Over time our natural fitness fades and only those who maintain it deliberately through regular exercise stay fit. Exactly the same thing happens with creativity; if we use it, we keep it, if we don't, it fades. What's more, like physical fitness, creativity can be regained in later life, but only through regular exercise and long term lifestyle changes. Finally, just as the world is full of complicated diets and exercise plans, solutions to getting creative tend towards the complicated, short term and prone to failure, rather than focusing on the simple, daily practices that lead to long term success.  

That is why I am writing Hard, Not Complicated: getting and staying creative the simple way (the subtitle is a work in progress). This book will begin as a short(ish) e-book. Over time, if people find it useful, I will add to the book, consider producing some printed versions and then, if needs be, publish it and become an international best selling author and regular speaker at TED. You know, only if I must. For now I intend to use this blog to share updates and drafts here and there. If you're interested in getting a copy of version 1.0 when it's done please email and let me know at aran@sabretoothpanda.com